{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh14320\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Feminism and Computer Science!\

\b0 50 minute lesson plan\
by Erica Goodwin & Katie Erickson, developed for Claremont SPLASH 2017\
\

\b \ul OVERVIEW
\b0 \ulnone \
This is a 50 minute lesson with three goals:\
- to build enthusiasm about computer science in students with little to no prior experience\
- to teach students about the intersectionality of identity\
- to demonstrate that we can learn about feminism and computer science at the same time!\
\

\b Introducing identity concepts:\

\i\b0 (10 mins)\

\i0 Introduce the identity wheel exercise and give students time to fill out their wheel. Spend the last few minutes sharing and discussing with partners and as a class. \
\

\i Note:\

\i0 Help students see that the emphasis of the activity is not on how one individual categorizes or labels their own identities (an impossible thing to truly do!) but on the questions and conversations this activity brings up. Teach students that some of the complicated ways that identities function together are discussed in the theory of intersectionality, a term coined by Kimberlee Crenshaw. \
\

\b Introducing HTML & CSS concepts:\

\i\b0 (15 mins)
\i0\b \

\b0 Show students how to open the starter code downloaded to their computer in a text editor and web browser. Briefly cover the syntax of HTML and CSS, covering opening/closing tags for HTML and identifiers and qualities for CSS. Point out the different header levels in the html document, and the color specifications in the css document. Let students edit these. 
\b \
\
Social identity website project:\

\i\b0 (15 mins)
\i0\b \

\b0 Students will now work on customizing the starter code into a website that showcases different aspects of their identities. Emphasize the use of online resources.
\b \
\
Wrap-up: \

\i\b0 (10 mins, optional, depending on website project momentum)
\i0\b \

\b0 Transparency in education empowers students! We\'92ll wrap up the class with a discussion of why everything we discussed was important, and why we discussed computer science and identity concepts 
\i together
\i0 . Let student comments guide this conversation! }